# importance-of-love
Giving love is not about grand, showy gestures. It doesn’t take a lot of time, effort, or money to offer love and affection. Quite the opposite, in fact. It’s actually a slow and steady process that’s more about consistency and dependability, rather than the occasional over-the-top display.   Here are a few pieces of advice on how to show love:  Be sincere: Don’t do anything that doesn’t come naturally to you. Not to say that you’ll never have to step outside your comfort zone. But when you do, it should be to show love and affection in a way that feels right for you and your partner. Don’t copy everything you see in movies, on TV, or hear about from friends. Consider having a conversation about languages of love, or small gestures which make your partner feel appreciated. Once you understand how they prefer to be given love and affection, it will become second nature to you. Be consistent: Nothing is more disheartening than having a partner who runs hot and cold. When you’re in a bad mood, let them know you love them, but could just use a bit of space for awhile. Also, try to get into the habit of saying “I love you” at least twice a day, perhaps when you wake up in the morning and before you go to sleep at night.  Be there: Showing love sometimes just means showing up. You’d be surprised by how supported your partner feels when you take time out of your schedule to be with them for occasions big and small. If they’re upset, offer a shoulder to cry on. It’s not necessary to start doling out sage advice, being there is enough.  Surprise them: No, not an expensive, elaborate surprise party with all their family, friends, and coworkers. Even the tiniest of surprises every once in a while can go a long way. Tape a note to the bathroom mirror, leave their favorite treat on their pillow, or send a text in the middle of the workday. Small gestures such as these demonstrate how much you care, and that you think about them even when you’re not together. 
